nostr-guide (#541)
Start9Labs/documentation: site/source/service-guides/nostr/index.rst

.. _nostr-service:

=====
Nostr
=====

> Nostr is the simplest open protocol that is able to create a censorship-resistant global "social" network once and for all.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Nostr is a simple, open protocol that enables global, decentralized, and censorship-resistant social media. 
```

Used description from nostr.com

> It doesn't rely on any trusted central server, hence it is resilient; it is based on cryptographic keys and signatures, so it is tamperproof; it does not rely on P2P techniques, and therefore it works.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

.. note::

  It is highly recommended that you run a private relay, not a public one. Private will be the default option when you open the config for the first time. You will not be able to save the config until you follow the instructions below.

**Initial Config**

> * Install **Nostr RS relay** service from Start9 Registry on your server.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#. Install **Nostr RS relay** service from Start9 Registry on your server.
```

  .. figure:: /_static/images/services/nostr/nostr-1.png
        :width: 50%
        :alt: nostr install

> * In service page click **CONFIGURE** and add pubkey in hex format to whitelist your client. Click save.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#. In the service, page click **CONFIGURE** and add the pubkey in hex format to whitelist your client. Click save.
```

  .. figure:: /_static/images/services/nostr/nostr-2.png
        :width: 50%
        :alt: nostr whitelist pubkey

> * Now you will have Nostr relay websocket URL available in Nostr Properties.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#. Now you will have a Nostr relay websocket URL available in Nostr Properties.
```

**Running a public relay**

In contrast to a private relay, a public relay lacks a whitelist, permitting any pubkey to post. Running a public relay is not recommended unless you comprehend the associated risks and configure it with appropriate safeguards. The primary risk to be mindful of is the potential for malicious clients to spam your relay, leading to the saturation of your storage drive. While we have implemented fairly restrictive defaults in your configuration to mitigate this risk, it is crucial to acknowledge that you assume responsibility for managing this aspect on your own.

**Testing your relay**

If you want to test your private relay and verify whether it's storing all your notes, you can SSH into your server and execute the following command.

> .. code-block:: bash
> 
>   sudo podman exec nostr.embassy sqlite3 /data/nostr.db "SELECT content FROM event;" | grep -o 'content":"[^"]*' | awk -F: '{print $1":"$2}'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  .. code-block:: bash

    sudo podman exec nostr.embassy sqlite3 /data/nostr.db "SELECT content FROM event;" | grep -o 'content":"[^"]*' | awk -F: '{print $1":"$2}'
```
